This template was acquired via department emails requesting feedback on experimental LaTeX -> HTML workflow.

# How to build / typeset this document to pdf
I am tyepsetting via command line with
```
> pdflatex -interaction=nonstopmode thesis.tex
> biber thesis
> pdflatex -interaction=nonstopmode thesis.tex
```
or in one line with
```
> pdflatex -interaction=nonstopmode thesis.tex; biber thesis; pdflatex -interaction=nonstopmode thesis.tex
```
It may be helpful to remove intermediate autogenerated files with
```
> rm *.aux *.log *.toc *.lof *.lot *.bbl *.blg *.bcf
```
The above commands have been added to a makefile for convenience. Call them from the command line with
`make clean` or `make typeset`.

# I want to use TeXShop
If you want to use the TeXShop GUI application,
open `thesis.tex` from TeXShop, then change the typesetting engine to **pdflatexmk**
(from the default LaTeX).
The LaTex might work but the bibliography and references will not be properly added.
I'm using mac so the compile/typeset command is <kbd>&#8984;</kbd> + <kbd>t</kbd>
(or use the GUI drop-down-menu to select *Typeset*).

For reference, I installed TeX Live (mactex) via the package installer found at https://www.tug.org/mactex/
Using homebrew to install TeXLive should also work. Here are the version numbers I have.
```
> pdflatex --version
pdfTeX 3.141592653-2.6-1.40.24 (TeX Live 2022)

> biber --version
biber version: 2.17
```

# I want to use Overleaf
I have not attempted to use overleaf. Maybe someone can document their workflow and send me a writeup?

# I want to output to HTML
I have not attempted HTML generation yet.
https://libguides.sfsu.edu/latex/generating-html

# Other resources
https://sfsu.app.box.com/v/ma-thesis-examples

# Known Issues
- The **Certificate of Approval** page appears to have some bugs
  - A fourth (blank) signature line appears despite commenting out the `\memberfour{}` and related commands.
  - The `\numberofmembers{}` command seems to have no effect
  - **POSSIBLE SOLUTION** edit the sfsuthesis.cls file to customize the approvalpage definition.
- **bold** (e.g. `{\bf my bold text}`) and **italic** (e.g. `{\it my italicized text}`) inline blocks have no effect.
  - It is unclear if this is a bug or style guide enforced by the template.
  - **POSSIBLE [Solution](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/392568/class-memoir-error-font-command-it-is-not-supported)** Use newer font-switching commands (e.g. `\bfseries`) or provide the `oldfontcommands` option to `\documentclass` (i.e. `\documentclass[oldfontcommands]{sfsuthesis}`)

# Citations
Put your bibliographic references in the file `references.bib` (referred to as a database)
and use the LaTeX command `\cite{my-article-name}`.

[How to find bib file entries.](https://texblog.org/2014/04/22/using-google-scholar-to-download-bibtex-citations/#:~:text=To%20download%20BibTeX%20citation%20go,and%20paste%20the%20BibTeX%20citation)

# Custom LaTeX math commands and Operators
There is now a file `math-defines.tex` intended to hold custom LaTeX commands.
It is included in `thesis.tex`.
Defining a command in `math-defines.tex` should enable its use throughout the document.


